# Multi-class classification at Level 2 {informal vs formal vs background}
* Please note, you have to change paths to your data in each file. 
* File descriptions are given below. Please note, slumNet.py refers to the CNN.It is called by train and test functions. To run the train and test methods, change paths to your respective data, and run python trainL3.py (to train) and python testNet.py to run thesting. Descriptions of each method are given below: 
	* train*.py - to train the model for the current level of classification. Please note, you need to have folders named models and models/model-3-cl-final before running the network to store the  final model weights after training.
	* testNet.py - to verify the correctness of the model on the sample test set
	* slumNet.py - the neural net used for this purpose
* To predict on entire image, you aave two choices:
* classifyImage.py - it classifies a 40 x 40 patch, jumps 40 pixels forward and clasifies next patch After finishing the row, jumps 40 rows down. THis movement is generated using the ground truth shape file, which is made up of a grid , with a point at the top left corner of each square in the grid. Given that creating a large raster for entire image is too memory consuming, you can specify the starting row and ending row as inputs to the code. To run this file, use ```python classifyImage.py starting_row_number ending_row_number```
* classifyImagePerPixel: While the prediction logic in this code is the same as classsifyImage.py. you will perform classification per pixel here. In the image, you consider the 40 * 40 neighborhood around a pixel, classify it and assign the label to this pixel only. Please note, reference pixel is at the center of the 40 x 40 neighborhood. This results ina more fine grained representation. Given that creating a large raster for entire image is too memory consuming, you can specify the starting row and ending row as inputs to the code. To run this code, you will use ```python classifyImagePerPixel.py starting_row_number ending_row_number``` 
